Second part of GLUE 2.1 review (J Jensen)

One curiousity which I'd missed (till it was inadvertently pointed out
to me earlier) is the abstract which says grid entities are described
in "natural language" - this is odd: natural language is English, or
some other language, using natural sentences.  Did you mean human
readable?  A word like "ComputingActivityType" is not natural
language, but it is human readable.


Continuing the review (sec 8).

I don't nitpick the language or punctuation too much but I can't let
you say "leverages on".  If you must say "leverages", delete the "on"

"a give user base" -> "a given user base"

What's a Virtual Appliance [missing definition]

"bed in Chapter 7" -> "described in Chapter 7"

If your cloud infrastructure is VM based, you cannot account for
serverless computing (or would that be PaaS instead)?  It'd have zeros
for each VM, but might be a capability or OtherInfo, I guess.

The last para in 8.1 is quite difficult to read (once it gets to the A
and B bits).

8.3

"referred as Zones or Sites" -> "referred to as Zones or Sites"

What if the VM is hosting Docker or Singularity containers (a common
use case for myself; the virtual host is a core OS with Docker and
very little else) - or it may run Kubernetes etc?  Are the containers
out of scope of the CloudComputingShare?  Or is each container a
share?  Or pod?

8.4

The accelerator, do you distinguish between one wholly owned by the
VM, or shared between the VM and other VMs?

8.11

I am not sure I asked for section 7; is UsedTotalCPUTime for physical
or logical CPUs?  I presume logical?

8.13

price voice?!

independent _of_ the resource

"pricing respect to commercial one" -> "pricing with respect to
commercial one", or better "pricing than commercial use"

"different pricing respect to commercial" - there's a word missing
here.  Pricing compared to? With respect to?

Nitpick - should "User Domain" be UserDomain? and AccessPolicy?
(inconsistent use)

The sentence beginning "In this view" should be rephrased.

8.14

"The disk may also be temporary un-associated to any Computing entity"
- I don't understand what this means.  And you probably meant
"temporarily."  What I think you're saying is that the CloudToStorage
object can be published with no Instance or Image associations.  Or
does it mean that the CloudToStorage should be not published?  And why
temporarily?

9. Again inconsistent spacing "Storage Access Protocol" ->
"StorageAccessProtocol" etc.

Section reference missing.

9.1.

There's a slightly unfortunate formatting malfunction which makes a
sentence read "Data may be stored in or retrieved from StorageShares
though glue-wg@ogf.org" ;-P

9.3

On a slightly nitpicky front, the POSIX API is quite large, and
sometimes only a subset is supported (e.g. excluding some of the
difficult things like fcntl)

9.5

Nitpick.  In the discussion of RetentionPolicy, "custodial" and
"replica" are not just "examples", they are (along with "output") the
exact vocabulary.  Is the vocabulary normative or not?  Also, unlike
the latency, this is multivalued in the schema, so how does that work?

A StorageShare may not be available - is this MUST NOT?

9.6 Again, spaces used in courier-font names (Storage Service
CApacity)

9.7

Typo "respresents"

9.8

Spacing in keywords again - "Storage Service"

9.9

... and again.

9.10

EBS storage?

11.4.2

Nitpick: Grid operations - and cloud. Etc.
